README.md, before:

# Vue-Pimcore Generator

`$ node prerender.js --help`

## Elevator Pitch

Pimcore uses a WYSIWYG editor to edit documents which is incompatible with Vue components. To alleviate that, this generator opens a web page in the frontend, parses its contents, and creates Pimcore Areabricks. This is done using data attributes in Vue. Creating these Areabricks allows an editor to drag&drop components on a page and being able to see a preview within Pimcore which closely resembles the Vue frontend.

## Supported `data-pimcore-*` attributes

- `data-pimcore-areabrick` The name that should be used for the area brick in Pimcore. Only [a-z] are allowed.
- `data-pimcore-arg` Optional arguments for the Twig tag, e.g. see https://pimcore.com/docs/6.x/Development_Documentation/Documents/Editables/Relation_(Many-To-One).html#page_Using-Restriction
- `data-pimcore-identifier` The field name of the Twig tag (e.g. `thisisthename -> pimcore_input('thisisthename')`) and entry in the data object. Only [a-z_] are allowed
- `data-pimcore-disable-editmode` Recursively adds the `disabled` attribute `<a>` tags when in Pimcore's edit mode. Was added to prevent navigation usage in Pimcore's edit mode.
- `data-pimcore-type` Type of the CMS editor input type and Twig tag (e.g. `input -> pimcore_input('name')`), see [list of editables](https://pimcore.com/docs/6.x/Development_Documentation/Documents/Editables/index.html#page_List-of-Editables)
- `data-pimcore-document` defines the path to the twig file after the build (e.g. `snippets/my_snippet`) AND source url of the data for GraphQL.
- `data-pimcore-is-snippet` Defines the root element of a snippet template.

## Examples

### Snippet (complete example)

#### `c-header.vue`

This is the only file you write by hand.

```vue
<!-- A layout -->
<b-jumbotron
    :class="b()"
    :header-level="5"
    lead-tag="div"
    data-pimcore-type="snippet"
    data-pimcore-identifier="header"
    data-pimcore-is-snippet
    :data-pimcore-document="path">
    <template v-slot:header>
        <div v-if="pimcoreDocumentReady"
             v-html="elements.headline.text"
             :class="b('header')"
             data-pimcore-identifier="headline"
             data-pimcore-type="input"></div>
    </template>
    <template v-slot:lead>
        <div v-if="pimcoreDocumentReady"
             v-html="elements.content.text"
             :class="b('lead')"
             data-pimcore-identifier="content"
             data-pimcore-type="wysiwyg"></div>
    </template>
  </b-jumbotron>
```

#### Rendered HTML

Generated by the browser.

```html
<div 
    data-pimcore-type="snippet" 
    data-pimcore-identifier="header" 
    data-pimcore-is-snippet="" 
    data-pimcore-document="/snippets/header_shared" 
    class="jumbotron c-header">
    <h1 class="display-5">
        <div
            data-pimcore-identifier="headline"
            data-pimcore-type="input" 
            class="c-header__header">
            Pimcore-CaaS-Vue-SPA-PWA-PoC!
        </div>
    </h1>
    <div class="lead">
        <div 
            data-pimcore-identifier="content" 
            data-pimcore-type="wysiwyg" 
            class="c-header__lead">
            <p>
                Viel Spass!
            </p>
        </div>
    </div>
</div>
```

#### Main Twig template

```twig
<div
    data-pimcore-document="/snippets/header_shared"
    class="jumbotron c-header">
    {{ pimcore_snippet('header') }}
</div>
```

#### Snippet Twig template at `snippets/header_shared.html.twig`

(Actually, three files are generated to have different view for editmode and viewmode.)

```twig
<h1 class="display-5">
    <div class="c-header__header">{{ pimcore_input('headline') }} </div>
</h1>
<div class="lead">
    <div class="c-header__lead">{{ pimcore_wysiwyg('content') }} </div>
</div>
```

### Pimcore Twig Tags

This Vue code:

```vue
<div data-pimcore-identifier="headline" data-pimcore-type="input"></div>
```

becomes this Twig code

```twig
<div>{{ pimcore_input('headline') }}</div>
```

Please see [the Pimcore docs](https://pimcore.com/docs/6.x/Development_Documentation/Documents/Editables/index.html) for which `data-pimcore-type`s are supported. The identifier can be any string and generally, snake_case or camelCase are used. kebab-case might lead to troubles dealing with GraphQL responses. And spaces are evil, weallknowthat. 

Additionally, a (second) argument can be passed to the Twig tag using `data-pimcore-arg` such as this example where a relation is restricted to `Product` objects:

```vue
<div data-pimcore-type="relations"
     data-pimcore-identifier="products"
     data-pimcore-arg='{
         "types": ["object"],
         "subtypes": {
             "object": ["object"],
         },
         "classes": ["Product"]
     }'
     :class="b('productgrid')">
</div>
```

Produce this Twig template:

```twig
<div class="c-areablock__productgrid">
    {{ pimcore_relations('products', {
            "types": ["object"],
            "subtypes": {
                "object": ["object"],
            },
            "classes": ["Product"]
        })
    }}
</div>
```

### Pimcore Areablocks and Bricks

#### Render mode

The only difference to normal Twig tags is: `data-pimcore-areabrick` on the parent.

```vue
<div v-for="block in elements"
    :key="block._tagName"
    :data-pimcore-areabrick="block._type">

    <div v-if="block._type === 'headline'">
        <e-heading tag-name="h2"
            :data-pimcore-type="block.content._tagType"
            data-pimcore-identifier="content">
            {{ block.content.text }}
        </e-heading>
    </div>
    
    <!-- Add more bricks -->

</div>
```

#### Adding-a-new-brick mode

Simply add the brick unconditionally and execute the generator.

```vue
<div v-for="block in elements"
    :key="block._tagName"
    :data-pimcore-areabrick="block._type">

    <c-new-component
        data-pimcore-type="brickname"
        data-pimcore-identifier="content">
        Lorem ipsum
    </c-new-component>
    
    <!-- Rest of the loop -->

</div>
```

Note: the name of the Vue component is irrelevant. (The parsing happens in a browser at which stage the Vue component names are no longer visible.)

Commit message:

#7, #8: extends generator-definitions documentation, makes generating of page templates optional

README.md, after:

# Vue-Pimcore Generator

`$ node prerender.js --help`

## Elevator Pitch

Pimcore uses a WYSIWYG editor to edit documents which is incompatible with Vue components. To alleviate that, this generator opens a web page in the frontend, parses its contents, and creates Pimcore Areabricks. This is done using data attributes in Vue. Creating these Areabricks allows an editor to drag&drop components on a page and being able to see a preview within Pimcore which closely resembles the Vue frontend.

## generator-definitions

This file defines which pages should be parsed by the Pimcore generator. To see the available options and their use, please see the `generator-definitions.sample.js` file.

## Supported `data-pimcore-*` attributes

- `data-pimcore-areabrick` The name that should be used for the area brick in Pimcore. Only [a-z] are allowed.
- `data-pimcore-arg` Optional arguments for the Twig tag, e.g. see https://pimcore.com/docs/6.x/Development_Documentation/Documents/Editables/Relation_(Many-To-One).html#page_Using-Restriction
- `data-pimcore-identifier` The field name of the Twig tag (e.g. `thisisthename -> pimcore_input('thisisthename')`) and entry in the data object. Only [a-z_] are allowed
- `data-pimcore-disable-editmode` Recursively adds the `disabled` attribute `<a>` tags when in Pimcore's edit mode. Was added to prevent navigation usage in Pimcore's edit mode.
- `data-pimcore-type` Type of the CMS editor input type and Twig tag (e.g. `input -> pimcore_input('name')`), see [list of editables](https://pimcore.com/docs/6.x/Development_Documentation/Documents/Editables/index.html#page_List-of-Editables)
- `data-pimcore-document` defines the path to the twig file after the build (e.g. `snippets/my_snippet`) AND source url of the data for GraphQL.
- `data-pimcore-is-snippet` Defines the root element of a snippet template.

## Examples

### Snippet (complete example)

#### `c-header.vue`

This is the only file you write by hand.

```vue
<!-- A layout -->
<b-jumbotron
    :class="b()"
    :header-level="5"
    lead-tag="div"
    data-pimcore-type="snippet"
    data-pimcore-identifier="header"
    data-pimcore-is-snippet
    :data-pimcore-document="path">
    <template v-slot:header>
        <div v-if="pimcoreDocumentReady"
             v-html="elements.headline.text"
             :class="b('header')"
             data-pimcore-identifier="headline"
             data-pimcore-type="input"></div>
    </template>
    <template v-slot:lead>
        <div v-if="pimcoreDocumentReady"
             v-html="elements.content.text"
             :class="b('lead')"
             data-pimcore-identifier="content"
             data-pimcore-type="wysiwyg"></div>
    </template>
  </b-jumbotron>
```

#### Rendered HTML

Generated by the browser.

```html
<div 
    data-pimcore-type="snippet" 
    data-pimcore-identifier="header" 
    data-pimcore-is-snippet="" 
    data-pimcore-document="/snippets/header_shared" 
    class="jumbotron c-header">
    <h1 class="display-5">
        <div
            data-pimcore-identifier="headline"
            data-pimcore-type="input" 
            class="c-header__header">
            Pimcore-CaaS-Vue-SPA-PWA-PoC!
        </div>
    </h1>
    <div class="lead">
        <div 
            data-pimcore-identifier="content" 
            data-pimcore-type="wysiwyg" 
            class="c-header__lead">
            <p>
                Viel Spass!
            </p>
        </div>
    </div>
</div>
```

#### Main Twig template

```twig
<div
    data-pimcore-document="/snippets/header_shared"
    class="jumbotron c-header">
    {{ pimcore_snippet('header') }}
</div>
```

#### Snippet Twig template at `snippets/header_shared.html.twig`

(Actually, three files are generated to have different view for editmode and viewmode.)

```twig
<h1 class="display-5">
    <div class="c-header__header">{{ pimcore_input('headline') }} </div>
</h1>
<div class="lead">
    <div class="c-header__lead">{{ pimcore_wysiwyg('content') }} </div>
</div>
```

### Pimcore Twig Tags

This Vue code:

```vue
<div data-pimcore-identifier="headline" data-pimcore-type="input"></div>
```

becomes this Twig code

```twig
<div>{{ pimcore_input('headline') }}</div>
```

Please see [the Pimcore docs](https://pimcore.com/docs/6.x/Development_Documentation/Documents/Editables/index.html) for which `data-pimcore-type`s are supported. The identifier can be any string and generally, snake_case or camelCase are used. kebab-case might lead to troubles dealing with GraphQL responses. And spaces are evil, weallknowthat. 

Additionally, a (second) argument can be passed to the Twig tag using `data-pimcore-arg` such as this example where a relation is restricted to `Product` objects:

```vue
<div data-pimcore-type="relations"
     data-pimcore-identifier="products"
     data-pimcore-arg='{
         "types": ["object"],
         "subtypes": {
             "object": ["object"],
         },
         "classes": ["Product"]
     }'
     :class="b('productgrid')">
</div>
```

Produce this Twig template:

```twig
<div class="c-areablock__productgrid">
    {{ pimcore_relations('products', {
            "types": ["object"],
            "subtypes": {
                "object": ["object"],
            },
            "classes": ["Product"]
        })
    }}
</div>
```

### Pimcore Areablocks and Bricks

#### Render mode

The only difference to normal Twig tags is: `data-pimcore-areabrick` on the parent.

```vue
<div v-for="block in elements"
    :key="block._tagName"
    :data-pimcore-areabrick="block._type">

    <div v-if="block._type === 'headline'">
        <e-heading tag-name="h2"
            :data-pimcore-type="block.content._tagType"
            data-pimcore-identifier="content">
            {{ block.content.text }}
        </e-heading>
    </div>
    
    <!-- Add more bricks -->

</div>
```

#### Adding-a-new-brick mode

Simply add the brick unconditionally and execute the generator.

```vue
<div v-for="block in elements"
    :key="block._tagName"
    :data-pimcore-areabrick="block._type">

    <c-new-component
        data-pimcore-type="brickname"
        data-pimcore-identifier="content">
        Lorem ipsum
    </c-new-component>
    
    <!-- Rest of the loop -->

</div>
```

Note: the name of the Vue component is irrelevant. (The parsing happens in a browser at which stage the Vue component names are no longer visible.)
